add exports content and rn (#4689)
fishtown-analytics/docs.getdbt.com: website/docs/docs/use-dbt-semantic-layer/exports.md

| **Usage**           | Automatically runs Saved Queries and materializes them within your data platform. Query metric defintions using SQL or integrate with a BI tool that doesn't have a native integration. Exports count towards [queried metrics](/docs/cloud/billing#what-counts-as-a-queried-metric) usage. <br /><br />**Example**: Creating a weekly aggregated table for active user metrics, automatically updated and stored in the data platform.  | Used for organizing and reusing common MetricFlow queries within dbt projects.<br /><br />**Example**: Group related metrics together for better organizations, and include commonly uses dimensions and filters. | For materializing query results in the data platform. |
| **Integration**     | Must have the dbt Semantic Layer configured in your dbt project.<br /><br />Tightly integrated with the [MetricFlow Server](/docs/use-dbt-semantic-layer/sl-architecture#components) and dbt Cloud's job scheduler. | Integrated into dbt DAG and managed alongside other dbt nodes. |

> | **Configuration**   | Configured within dbt Cloud environment and job scheduler settings. | Defined in YAML format within dbt project files.   |

Author: for SQ - am i right in thinking the only way to use them is via their editor or command line?

## Prerequisites

- Have a dbt Cloud account on a [Team or Enterprise](https://www.getdbt.com/pricing/) plan.
- Be on dbt version 1.7 or higher.
- Have a dbt Semantic Layer configured in your dbt project.
- Have a dbt Cloud environment with a [job scheduler](/docs/deploy/job-scheduler) enabled.

# Define Exports

Exports are an additonal configuration added to a Saved Query. They define how this Saved Query should be materialized along with the schema and table name.
You can define Exports in a YAML format in the as a key in the `saved_queries` configuration.

```yaml
saved_queries:
  - name: my_query
    description: null
    query_params:
      metrics:
        - null
      group_bys:
        - TimeDimension()
        - ...
      where:
        - null
    export:
      - name: my_export
        config:
          export_as: table # options: table, view
          schema: my_schema # [optional - DEFAULT to deployment schema]
          alias: some_table_name # [optional - DEFAULT to Export name]
```
## Running Exports

> 

Author: @JStein77 is it `saved-query` or `saved_query`? it looks like it's saved-query but double checking

Reviewer: saved-query!

By default all Exports are run for a Saved Query. You can select a specific Export with the `select` flag or you can specify a new Export using the `export-as` flag. The Job scheduler runs the equivalent of` dbt sl export --saved-query sq_name`.

| Parameters | Type    | Required | Description    |
| ------- | --------- | ---------- | ---------------- |
| `saved-query` | String    | Required     | A name of a Saved Query that could be used.    |
| `select` | List or String   | Optional    | Names of Exports to be selected from the Saved Query. |
| `exclude` | String  | Optional    | Not the names of Exports to be selected from the Saved Query. |
| `export-as` | String  | Optional    | Type of Export to create from the Export_as types available in the config. |
| `schema` | String  | Optional    | Schema to use for creating the table or view. |
| `alias` | String  | Optional    | Table alias to use to write the table or view. |

> Since `--select` is used to select an existing Export, it can't be used with alias or schema to override  the Export configurations. If you want to override the Export configurations, you can use the `--export-as` flag along with the `--schema` and `--alias` flags. For example:

Author: can we get a screenshot of the input and output?

Reviewer: Yup will add tomorrow.

---
title: "Exports"
description: "Use Exports to materialize tables to the data platform on a schedule."
sidebar_label: "Materialize queries with Exports"
---

Exports in the dbt Semantic Layer extends the [saved queries](/docs/build/saved-queries) functionality:

> - Exports enable you to materialize and automate these queries within your data platform.

Author: ```suggestion
- It enables you to materialize and automate these queries within your data platform.
```

> - Exports uses the dbt Cloud job scheduler to execute saved queries for reliable and fast data reporting.

Author: ```suggestion
- It uses the dbt Cloud job scheduler to execute saved queries for reliable and fast data reporting.
```

> While saved queries are a way to save and reuse commonly used queries in MetricFlow, Exports takes this a step further by using the MetricFlow server to materialize these queries as data tables of views using the dbt Cloud job scheduler.

Author: ```1suggestion
While saved queries are a way to save and reuse commonly used queries in MetricFlow, Exports takes this a step further by using the MetricFlow server to materialize these queries as table views using the dbt Cloud job scheduler.
```

| `export-as` | String  | Optional    | Type of export to create from the export_as types available in the config. |
| `schema` | String  | Optional    | Schema to use for creating the table or view. |
| `alias` | String  | Optional    | Table alias to use to write the table or view. |

## Schedule Exports

Exports in dbt are effectively integrated with your data models and metrics, allowing you to automate and materialize saved queries using the dbt Cloud job scheduler. These exports, along with saved queries, are treated as standard dbt models and are executed as part of the dbt <Term id="dag" />, following model builds where dependencies exist.

To execute exports using the job scheduler:

- Create a [deploy job](/docs/deploy/deploy-jobs) in dbt Cloud. 
- Use the built-in `dbt build` command to execute exports and saved queries. Note that although you can selectively run specific saved queries, this level of selection isn't available for individual exports. However, you can always create a different saved query if you want to separate exports. WHAT'S A SAMPLE QUERY? IS IT `export-as export_name` OR `dbt sl export --saved-query sq_name`

> - After dbt completes building the models, the MetricFlow Server processes the exports, compiles the necessary datasets, and executes data operations.

Author: can i have some more info here? what does 'data operations' mean?

| `drop-cache` |	`dbt sl cache drop` |	`{{ semantic_layer.drop_cache() }}` |	Drops datasets from the cache using parameters which target specific object |
| `inspect-cache` |	`dbt sl cache inspect` |	`{{ semantic_layer.inspect_cache() }}` |	Inspect and provides a list of objects that are in the cache. | 

## Job commands?

Additional parameters and commands are introduced in MetricFlow CLI and Cloud Interfaces to support Saved Queries and Exports functionalities.

| GraphQL	| dbt Cloud CLI |	ADBC	| Description	| 	
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| `create-query` |	`dbt sl query` |	`{{ semantic_layer.query() }}` |	Allows you to build the SQL for a query that does not hit the cache, utilizes a saved-query to specify parameters or specifies whether the cache should be utilized or overwritten	|
| `export`	| `dbt sl export`	| None, Not possible	| Builds an export using the GraphQL API. Use the export [parameters](#parameters). specified above in  |

> ## FAQs

Author: maybe we can add some common faqs we've seen? like how does this relate to other cloud features/products (e.g. cloud cli, explorer)

Reviewer 2: Maybe an FAQ question could be like, "How do Exports help me use the dbt Semantic Layer in tools that don't support it, such as PowerBI?"

| **Integration**     | Must have the dbt Semantic Layer configured in your dbt project.<br /><br />Tightly integrated with the [MetricFlow Server](/docs/use-dbt-semantic-layer/sl-architecture#components) and dbt Cloud's job scheduler. | Integrated into dbt DAG and managed alongside other dbt nodes. |
| **Configuration**   | Configured within dbt Cloud environment and job scheduler settings. | Defined in YAML format within dbt project files.   |

## Define exports

Exports are essentially saved queries that you can schedule and execute using [dbt's job scheduler](/docs/deploy/job-scheduler) capabilities. Exports include the following materialization types: CAN A USER ALSO USE API OR CI JOBS? WHAT IF THEY USE ANOTHER ORCHESTRATOR?

> 

Author: CAN A USER ALSO USE API OR CI JOBS? WHAT IF THEY USE ANOTHER ORCHESTRATOR?

Reviewer: Yea they should be able to call the cloud API to run an export job.

Reviewer 2: I don't think that functionality has been built yet. We are just using internal APIs to execute the Export, so we haven't exposed anything to the user yet.

Author: ok so i should leave anything api-related out?

Author: meaning the only way to run exports is via the dbt cloud jbo scheduler?

Reviewer 2: Just the Job Scheduler and the Cloud CLI, no API functionality yet.

| `saved-query` | String    | Required     | A name of a saved query that could be used.    |
| `select` | List or String   | Optional    | Names of exports to be selected from the saved query. |
| `exclude` | String  | Optional    | Not the names of exports to be selected from the saved query. |
| `export-as` | String  | Optional    | Type of export to create from the export_as types available in the config. |
| `schema` | String  | Optional    | Schema to use for creating the table or view. |
| `alias` | String  | Optional    | Table alias to use to write the table or view. |

## Schedule Exports

Exports in dbt are effectively integrated with your data models and metrics, allowing you to automate and materialize saved queries using the dbt Cloud job scheduler. These exports, along with saved queries, are treated as standard dbt models and are executed as part of the dbt <Term id="dag" />, following model builds where dependencies exist.

To execute exports using the job scheduler:

- Create a [deploy job](/docs/deploy/deploy-jobs) in dbt Cloud. DO USERS NEED TO HAVE A SUCCESSFUL JOB RUN BEFORE THEY CAN SCHEDULE EXPORTS? WHAT IF THEY DON'T HAVE A SUCCESSFUL JOB RUN?

> - Use the built-in `dbt build` command to execute exports and saved queries. Note that although you can selectively run specific saved queries, this level of selection isn't available for individual exports. However, you can always create a different saved query if you want to separate exports. WHAT'S A SAMPLE QUERY? IS IT `export-as export_name` OR `dbt sl export --saved-query sq_name`

Author: DO USERS NEED TO HAVE A SUCCESSFUL JOB RUN BEFORE THEY CAN SCHEDULE EXPORTS? WHAT IF THEY DON'T HAVE A SUCCESSFUL JOB RUN?

- Your data is now available in the data platform for querying.

   <Lightbox src="/img/docs/dbt-cloud/semantic-layer/saved_queries_run.jpg" width="90%" title="TeThe st"/>

## Caching

Caching reduces load times and costs by pre-computing and storing frequently queried datasets. This feature is critical for companies with large datasets or requiring fast query compute times.

There are two types of caching:
- Result cache &mdash; Cache all queries in the data platform and configured at the project or environment-level. This cache is used to store the results of a query save costs, and speed up subsequent queries.
- Declarative cache &mdash; Saved queries specified by the user and defaults to all saved queries being cached or not. This cache enables more control over what is cached.

To configure caching, you can add the `config` property to your `saved_queries` configuration:

```yaml
saved_queries:
  - name: my_query
    description:
    query_params:
      ...
    exports:
      ...
    config:
      cache:
        enabled: true|false
```

### Cache

> | GraphQL	| dbt Cloud CLI |	ADBC| Description	|

Author: is this mean to be jdbc?

| **Integration**     | Must have the dbt Semantic Layer configured in your dbt project.<br /><br />Tightly integrated with the [MetricFlow Server](/docs/use-dbt-semantic-layer/sl-architecture#components) and dbt Cloud's Job scheduler. | Integrated into the dbt <Term id="dag" /> and managed alongside other dbt nodes. |
| **Configuration**   | Configured within dbt Cloud environment and Job scheduler settings. | Defined in YAML format within dbt project files.   |

## Define Exports

Exports are an additional configuration added to a Saved Query. They define how to materialize a Saved Query, along with the schema and table name. 

You can define Exports in a YAML format as a key within the `saved_queries` configuration. Here's an example of a Saved Query with an Export:

> ```yaml

Author: @DevonFulcher do we add saved queries and exports in their own 'saved_queries.yml' file?

Reviewer 2: That is what I have been doing. I'm not sure what the best practice is. Maybe it should be in the same file as the semantic models? I'm not sure @Jstein77 would know best.

Reviewer: Devon's spot on, I would add them in the same file as my metric definitions.

| `exclude` | String  | Optional    | Not the names of Exports to be selected from the Saved Query. |
| `export_as` | String  | Optional    | Type of Export to create from the Export_as types available in the config. |
| `schema` | String  | Optional    | Schema to use for creating the table or view. |
| `alias` | String  | Optional    | Table alias to use to write the table or view. |

## Run Exports

Once you've defined Export in your dbt project, the next step is to run them. There are two ways to run an Export:
  
1. Run an Export in your development environment using the [dbt Cloud CLI](/docs/cloud/cloud-cli-installation).
2. Run an Export in your production environment using the [dbt Cloud Job scheduler](/docs/deploy/job-scheduler).

### Exports in Development

You can run an Export in your development environment if you want to test the output of the Export. 

You can run an Export using the dbt Cloud CLI command `dbt sl export` &mdash; for example, `dbt sl export --saved-query sq_name`. This command runs any Export defined for the Saved Query and materialize the table or view in your development environment.

> ---- ADD OUTPUT OF THE COMMAND HERE ----

Reviewer 2: Reminder to update this 😄

By default all Exports are run for a Saved Query. You can use the `select` flag to select a specific Export or you can specify a new Export using the `export-as` flag. In production, the dbt Cloud Job scheduler runs the equivalent of `dbt sl export --saved-query sq_name`.

Since the `--select` flag selects an existing Export, it can't be used with `alias` or `schema` to override the Export configurations. 

> 

Author: what do we mean by 'specify a new export'? do we mean specify a new export name?

Reviewer: This would be an entirely new export for this saved query with its own name and confirmation. I won't get written back to the configs, it's just a way to test out what the export would look like in development.

---
title: "Materialize queries with exports"
description: "Use exports to materialize tables to the data platform on a schedule."
sidebar_label: "Materialize with exports"
---

> Exports with the dbt Semantic Layer enhance the [saved queries](/docs/build/saved-queries) feature, allowing you to materialize commonly used queries directly within your data platform.

Reviewer 3: sugg: the sentence is a bit fragmented which makes it less translation friendly

```suggestion
The exports feature in dbt Semantic Layer enhances the [saved queries](/docs/build/saved-queries) by allowing you to materialize commonly used queries directly within your data platform.
```

While saved queries are a way to save and reuse commonly used queries in MetricFlow, exports take this functionality a step further by:

- Enabling you to materialize these queries within your data platform using dbt Cloud.
- Proving an integration path for tools that don't natively support the dbt Semantic Layer by exposing tables of metrics and dimensions.

> Essentially, exports are like any other table in your data platform. They allow you to query metric definition through any SQL interface or connect to downstream tools without needing a first class Semantic Layer integration. Refer to [Available integrations](/docs/use-dbt-semantic-layer/avail-sl-integrations) for more information.

Reviewer 3: non-blocking sugg. i was taught to avoid anthropomorphism in user docs, "enable" is preferred to "allow"  

```suggestion
Essentially, exports are like any other table in your data platform. They enable you to query metric definition through any SQL interface or connect to downstream tools without needing a first class Semantic Layer integration. Refer to [Available integrations](/docs/use-dbt-semantic-layer/avail-sl-integrations) for more information.
```

## Prerequisites

- You have a dbt Cloud account on a [Team or Enterprise](https://www.getdbt.com/pricing/) plan.

> - You are on [dbt version](/docs/dbt-versions/upgrade-core-in-cloud) 1.7 or higher.

Reviewer 3: sugg: i was taught that newer is preferred to higher bc it's more translation friendly (ie "higher" can have diff meanings depending on context)  

```suggestion
- You are on [dbt version](/docs/dbt-versions/upgrade-core-in-cloud) 1.7 or newer.
```

Author: i think we've been using 'higher' more but i think we should chat about our stance on this again. will put it in the agenda! 

i prefer 'higher' bc it indicates that the version number must be greater than the specified version and bc newer versions are generally numerically higher, it's understood that higher numbers mean more recent releases. but there's more to this now i think - so worth a quick chat for sure!

- You have the dbt Semantic Layer [configured](/docs/use-dbt-semantic-layer/setup-sl) in your dbt project.
- You have a dbt Cloud environment with a [Job scheduler](/docs/deploy/job-scheduler) enabled.

> ### Exports and saved queries

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
### Comparison between exports and saved queries
```

> The following table compares the features and usage between exports and saved queries: 

Reviewer 3: sugg: a bit more concise along with section title change above

```suggestion
```

| Feature |  Exports | <div style={{width:'250px, text-align: center'}}>Saved queries</div>  |
| ----------- | ----------- | ---------------- |

> | **Availability**    | Available on dbt Cloud [Team or Enterprise](https://www.getdbt.com/pricing/) plans (dbt versions 1.7 or higher).| Available in both dbt Core and dbt Cloud.     |

Reviewer 3: sugg: remove parenthesis since version requirement seems important enough info

```suggestion
| **Availability**    | Available on dbt Cloud [Team or Enterprise](https://www.getdbt.com/pricing/) plans with dbt versions 1.7 or newer.| Available in both dbt Core and dbt Cloud.     |
```

> | **Purpose**         | To materialize saved queries in your data platform and expose metrics and dimensions as a view or table. | To define and manage common Semantic Layer queries in YAML, which includes metrics and dimensions.   |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| **Purpose**         | To materialize saved queries in your data platform and expose metrics and dimensions as a view or table. | To define and manage common Semantic Layer queries in YAML, including metrics and dimensions.   |
```

> | **Usage**           | Automatically runs saved queries and materializes them within your data platform. Exports count towards [queried metrics](/docs/cloud/billing#what-counts-as-a-queried-metric) usage. <br /><br />**Example**: Creating a weekly aggregated table for active user metrics, automatically updated and stored in the data platform.  | Used for organizing and reusing common MetricFlow queries within dbt projects.<br /><br /><br />**Example**: Group related metrics together for better organization, and include commonly uses dimensions and filters. | For materializing query results in the data platform. |

Reviewer 3: sugg: per style guide, bold is reserved for UI labels, titles, etc

```suggestion
| **Usage**           | Automatically runs saved queries and materializes them within your data platform. Exports count towards [queried metrics](/docs/cloud/billing#what-counts-as-a-queried-metric) usage. <br /><br />Example: Create a weekly aggregated table for active user metrics, automatically updated and stored in the data platform.  | Used for organizing and reusing common MetricFlow queries within dbt projects.<br /><br /><br />Example: Group related metrics together for better organization, and include commonly uses dimensions and filters. | For materializing query results in the data platform. |
```

| **Integration**     | Must have the dbt Semantic Layer configured in your dbt project.<br /><br />Tightly integrated with the [MetricFlow Server](/docs/use-dbt-semantic-layer/sl-architecture#components) and dbt Cloud's Job scheduler. | Integrated into the dbt <Term id="dag" /> and managed alongside other dbt nodes. |
| **Configuration**   | Configured within dbt Cloud environment and Job scheduler settings. | Defined in YAML format within dbt project files.   |

## Define exports

Exports are an additional configuration added to a saved query. They define how to materialize a saved query, along with the schema and table name.

> You can define exports in a YAML format as a key within the `saved_queries` configuration and in the same file as your metric definitions.  Here's an example of a saved query with an Export:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
You can define exports in a YAML format as a key within the `saved_queries` configuration and in the same file as your metric definitions.

An example of a saved query with an export:
```

<File name='semantic_model.yml'>

```yaml
saved_queries:

>   - name: your_query

Reviewer 3: sugg: i believe we use screaming snake case for placeholders, per https://github.com/dbt-labs/docs.getdbt.com/blob/current/contributing/content-style-guide.md#placeholder-text unless this decision was updated recently

```suggestion
  - name: YOUR_QUERY
```

Author: totally my b - great catch!

>     description: your_description

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    description: YOUR_DESCRIPTION
```

    query_params:
      metrics:

>         - your_metric_name

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
        - YOUR_METRIC_NAME
```

      group_bys:
        - TimeDimension()
        - ... # Additional group_bys
      where:
        - ... # Additional where clauses
    export:

>       - name: your_export

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
      - name: YOUR_EXPORT
```

        config:
          export_as: table # Options available: table, view

>           schema: your_schema # Optional - defaults to deployment schema

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
          schema: YOUR_SCHEMA # Optional - defaults to deployment schema
```

>           alias: some_table_name # Optional - defaults to Export name

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
          alias: SOME_TABLE_NAME # Optional - defaults to Export name
```

```
</File>

> You can use the following parameters to define an Export:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
You can use the following parameters to define an `export`:
```

| Parameters | Type    | Required | Description    |
| ------- | --------- | ---------- | ---------------- |

> | `name` | String    | Required     | Name of the Export object.    |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| `name` | String    | Required     | Name of the `export` object.    |
```

> | `saved-query` | String    | Required     | A name of a saved query that could be used.    |

Reviewer 3: sugg: for parallel construction with previous table row

newbie question: this is a required parameter so is "that could be used" needed in the desc below?

```suggestion
| `saved-query` | String    | Required     | Name of a saved query that could be used.    |
```

> | `select` | List or String   | Optional    | Names of exports to be selected from the saved query. |

Reviewer 3: sugg: not sure if sugg is _more_ clear but that was what i was going for

```suggestion
| `select` | List or String   | Optional    | Specify the names of exports to select from the saved query. |
```

> | `exclude` | String  | Optional    | The names of exports to be excluded from the from the saved query. |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| `exclude` | String  | Optional    | Specify the names of exports to exclude from the saved query. |
```

> | `export_as` | String  | Optional    | Type of Export to create from the `export_as` types available in the config. Options available are `table` or `view`. |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| `export_as` | String  | Optional    | Type of export to create from the `export_as` types available in the config. Options available are `table` or `view`. |
```

| `schema` | String  | Optional    | Schema to use for creating the table or view. |
| `alias` | String  | Optional    | Table alias to use to write the table or view. |

## Run exports

> Once you've defined Export in your dbt project, the next step is to run them. There are two ways to run an Export:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Once you define exports in your dbt project, then you can run them. There are two ways to run an export:
```

> 1. [Run exports in development](#exports-in-development) using the [dbt Cloud CLI](/docs/cloud/cloud-cli-installation).

Reviewer 3: sugg: bulleted list. ordered lists (numbered lists) are typically reserved for set of steps

```suggestion
- [Run exports in development](#exports-in-development) using the [dbt Cloud CLI](/docs/cloud/cloud-cli-installation).
```

> 2. [Run exports in production](#exports-in-production) using the [dbt Cloud Job scheduler](/docs/deploy/job-scheduler).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- [Run exports in production](#exports-in-production) using the [dbt Cloud job scheduler](/docs/deploy/job-scheduler).
```

> ### Exports in Development

Reviewer 3: sugg: sentence case (vs title case)

```suggestion
### Exports in development
```

> You can run an Export in your development environment using your development credentials if you want to test the output of the Export before production. You can use the following command in the dbt Cloud CLI:

Reviewer 3: sugg: sentence case for "export"

```suggestion
You can run an export in your development environment using your development credentials if you want to test the output of the export before production. You can use the following command in the dbt Cloud CLI:
```

```bash
dbt sl export
```

> You can also use the following command to run any Export defined for the saved query and materialize the table or view in your development environment:

Reviewer 3: sugg: slightly more concise

```suggestion
You can also run any export defined for the saved query and materialize the table or view in your development environment. For example: 
```

```bash
dbt sl export --saved-query sq_name
```

> ---- ADD OUTPUT OF THE COMMAND HERE ----

Author: Jordan to add image here

> ### Use the `select` flag

Reviewer 3: sugg: per [style guide](https://github.com/dbt-labs/docs.getdbt.com/blob/current/contributing/content-style-guide.md#text-formatting) tho we do have a lot of prior art with multiple decorations

```suggestion
### Use the select flag
```

> By default, all exports are run for a saved query. You can use the `select` flag in [development](#exports-in-development) or [production](#exports-in-production) to select or exclude a specific Export.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
By default, all exports are run for a saved query. You can use the `select` flag in [development](#exports-in-development) or [production](#exports-in-production) to select or exclude a specific export.
```

> For example, the following command will run the `export_1` and `export_2` and doesn't work with the `--alias` or `--export_as` flags:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
For example, the following command runs `export_1` and `export_2` and doesn't work with the `--alias` or `--export_as` flags:
```

```bash
dbt sl export --select export_1,export2
```

<details>
<summary>Overriding Export configurations</summary>

> The `--select` flag is mainly used to include or exclude specific exports. If you need to change these settings, you can use the following flags to override Export configurations:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The `--select` flag is mainly used to include or exclude specific exports. If you need to change these settings, you can use the following flags to override export configurations:
```

> - `--export-as` &mdash; Defines the materialization type (table or view) for the Export. This creates a new export with its own settings, useful for testing in development.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- `--export-as` &mdash; Defines the materialization type (table or view) for the export. This creates a new export with its own settings and is useful for testing in development.
```

> - `--schema` &mdash;  Specifies the schema to be used for the  materialized table or view.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- `--schema` &mdash;  Specifies the schema to use for the  materialized table or view.
```

> - `--alias` &mdash; Assigns a custom alias to the materialized table or view, overriding the default Export name.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- `--alias` &mdash; Assigns a custom alias to the materialized table or view. This overrides the default export name.
```

> Note that `--select` flag can't be used with `alias` or `schema`.

Reviewer 3: sugg: adding a lil bit more emphasis for people to be careful

```suggestion
Be careful. The `--select` flag _can't_ be used with `alias` or `schema`.
```

> For example, you can use the following command to create a new Export named `new_export` as a table:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
For example, you can use the following command to create a new export named `new_export` as a table:
```

```bash
dbt sl export --saved-query sq_number1 --export-as table --alias new_export
```
</details>

> ### Exports in Production

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
### Exports in production
```

> You can run an Export against your production data by adding the `--include-saved-query` flag to the `dbt build` **Commands** box, in your deployment **Execution Settings**. Running `dbt build --include-saved-query` runs the equivalent of `dbt sl export --saved-query sq_name` in the dbt Cloud Job scheduler.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
You can run an export against your production data by adding the `--include-saved-query` flag to the `dbt build` **Commands** box in your deployment **Execution Settings**. Running `dbt build --include-saved-query` runs the equivalent of `dbt sl export --saved-query sq_name` in the dbt Cloud job scheduler.
```

> When you run a build job, any saved queries downstream of the dbt models in that job will run as well. To make sure your Export data is up-to-date, run the Export as a downstream step (after the model). The steps to create an Export are:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
When you run a build job, any saved queries downstream of the dbt models in that job will also run. To make sure your export data is up-to-date, run the export as a downstream step (after the model). 

To create an export: 
```

1. Create a [deploy job](/docs/deploy/deploy-jobs) in dbt Cloud.

> 2. Add the `--include-saved-query` to the `dbt build` command in your **Execution Settings** to re-run any Export that needs to be refreshed after a model is build. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
2. Add the `--include-saved-query` to the `dbt build` command in your **Execution Settings** to rerun any export that needs to be refreshed after a model is built. 
```

   - You can use the [selector syntax](/reference/node-selection/syntax) `--select` to only run the exports downstream of a particular model.
3. After dbt finishes building the models, the MetricFlow Server processes the exports, compiles the necessary SQL, and executes this SQL against your data platform.

> 4. Review the exports execution details in the jobs logs and confirm the Export was run successfully. Since saved queries are integrated into the dbt DAG, all outputs related to exports are available in the job logs.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
4. Review the exports execution details in the jobs logs and confirm the export was run successfully. Since saved queries are integrated into the dbt DAG, all outputs related to exports are available in the job logs.
```

5. Your data is now available in the data platform for querying.

<Lightbox src="/img/docs/dbt-cloud/semantic-layer/deploy_exports.jpg" width="90%" title="Adding --include-saved-query to the dbt build command in your job execution settings." />

> You can use the selector syntax `--select` or `-s` to specify a particular dbt model to run in your build command in order to only run the exports downstream of that model. As an example, the following command will run any saved queries that are downstream of the `orders` semantic model:

Reviewer 3: consider moving this info (along with example) to step 2's sub-bullet instead, where `--select` is first mentioned 

by chunking together, it won't feel like the sentence is being repeated.

```bash
dbt build --include-saved-query --select orders+
```

## FAQs

> <detailsToggle alt_header="Can I have multiple exports in a single saved-query?">

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
<detailsToggle alt_header="Can I have multiple exports in a single saved query?">
```

> Yes, this is possible. However, the only difference would be the name, schema, and materialization strategy of the Export.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Yes, this is possible. However, the difference would be the name, schema, and materialization strategy of the export.
```

</detailsToggle>

<detailsToggle alt_header="How do I run all exports for a saved query?">

> - In production runs, you build a model and any exports downstream of that model. There is currently no way to call the Export directly from the Job scheduler.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- In production runs, you build a model and any exports downstream of that model. There is currently no way to call the export directly from the job scheduler.
```

> - In development, you can run all exports by running `dbt sl Export --saved-query sq_name`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- In development, you can run all exports by running `dbt sl export --saved-query sq_name`.
```

</detailsToggle>

<detailsToggle alt_header="Will I run duplicate exports if multiple models are downstream of my saved query?">

> We will only run each Export once even if we build multiple models that are downstream of the saved query. For example, you may have a saved query called `order_metrics`, which has metrics from both the `orders` and `order_items` semantic models. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
dbt will only run each export once even if it builds multiple models that are downstream of the saved query. For example, you may have a saved query called order_metrics, which has metrics from both the orders and order_items semantic models.
```

Author: thanks Ly! i like your sugg, however i prefer to also keep example so it super clear and complements the next section of the content. am going to update it to the following if there's no fud:

> dbt will only run each export once even if it builds multiple models that are downstream of the saved query. For example, you may have a saved query called `order_metrics`, which has metrics from both the `orders` and `order_items` semantic models.

> You can run a job that includes both models: `dbt build --include-saved-query`. This runs both the `orders` and `order_items` models, however it will only run the `order_metrics` Export once.

Reviewer 3: sugg: keep example together 

```suggestion
For example, you might have a saved query called `order_metrics`, which has metrics from both the `orders` and `order_items` semantic models. You can run a job that includes both models: `dbt build --include-saved-query`. This runs both the `orders` and `order_items` models, however it will only run the `order_metrics` export once.
```

</detailsToggle>

> <detailsToggle alt_header="Can I reference an Export as a dbt model using ref()">

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
<detailsToggle alt_header="Can I reference an export as a dbt model using ref()?">
```

> No, you won't be able to reference an Export using `ref`. Exports are treated as leaf nodes in your DAG. Modifying an Export cold lead to inconsistencies with the the original metrics from the Semantic Layer.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
No, you won't be able to reference an export using `ref`. Exports are treated as leaf nodes in your DAG. Modifying an export could lead to inconsistencies with the the original metrics from the Semantic Layer.
```

Author: dang great catch!

You can use the selector syntax `--select` or `-s` to specify a particular dbt model to run in your build command in order to only run the exports downstream of that model, or to select a saved query to run. As an example, the following command will run any saved queries that are downstream of the `orders` semantic model:

```bash
dbt build --select orders+
```

## FAQs

<detailsToggle alt_header="Can I have multiple exports in a single saved query?">

Yes, this is possible. However, the difference would be the name, schema, and materialization strategy of the export.
</detailsToggle>

<detailsToggle alt_header="How do I run all exports for a saved query?">

- In production runs, you can build the saved query by calling it directly in the build command, or you build a model and any exports downstream of that model
- In development, you can run all exports by running `dbt sl export --saved-query sq_name`.

</detailsToggle>

<detailsToggle alt_header="Will I run duplicate exports if multiple models are downstream of my saved query?">

> dbt will only run each export once even if it builds multiple models that are downstream of the saved query. For example, you may have a saved query called order_metrics, which has metrics from both the orders and order_items semantic models.

Author: ```suggestion
dbt will only run each export once even if it builds multiple models that are downstream of the saved query. For example, you may have a saved query called `order_metrics`, which has metrics from both the `orders` and `order_items` semantic models.
```

> You can run a job that includes both models: `dbt build`. This runs both the `orders` and `order_items` models, however it will only run the `order_metrics` export once.

Author: ```suggestion
You can run a job that includes both models using `dbt build`. This runs both the `orders` and `order_items` models, however, it will only run the `order_metrics` export once.
```

| Feature |  Exports | <div style={{width:'250px, text-align: center'}}>Saved queries</div>  |
| ----------- | ----------- | ---------------- |
| **Availability**    | Available on dbt Cloud [Team or Enterprise](https://www.getdbt.com/pricing/) plans with dbt versions 1.7 or newer.| Available in both dbt Core and dbt Cloud.     |
| **Purpose**         | To materialize saved queries in your data platform and expose metrics and dimensions as a view or table. | To define and manage common Semantic Layer queries in YAML, including metrics and dimensions.   |
| **Usage**           | Automatically runs saved queries and materializes them within your data platform. Exports count towards [queried metrics](/docs/cloud/billing#what-counts-as-a-queried-metric) usage. <br /><br />Example: Create a weekly aggregated table for active user metrics, automatically updated and stored in the data platform.  | Used for organizing and reusing common MetricFlow queries within dbt projects.<br /><br /><br />Example: Group related metrics together for better organization, and include commonly uses dimensions and filters. | For materializing query results in the data platform. |

> | **Integration**     | Must have the dbt Semantic Layer configured in your dbt project.<br /><br />Tightly integrated with the [MetricFlow Server](/docs/use-dbt-semantic-layer/sl-architecture#components) and dbt Cloud's Job scheduler. | Integrated into the dbt <Term id="dag" /> and managed alongside other dbt nodes. |

Reviewer 3: missed this yesterday, sorry! 

similar to "exports" & "saved queries" , it's also "job scheduler" as it's a feature (vs a product)

```suggestion
| **Integration**     | Must have the dbt Semantic Layer configured in your dbt project.<br /><br />Tightly integrated with the [MetricFlow Server](/docs/use-dbt-semantic-layer/sl-architecture#components) and dbt Cloud's job scheduler. | Integrated into the dbt <Term id="dag" /> and managed alongside other dbt nodes. |
```

> | **Configuration**   | Configured within dbt Cloud environment and Job scheduler settings. | Defined in YAML format within dbt project files.   |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| **Configuration**   | Configured within dbt Cloud environment and job scheduler settings. | Defined in YAML format within dbt project files.   |
```

## Define exports

Exports are an additional configuration added to a saved query. They define how to materialize a saved query, along with the schema and table name.

> You can define exports in a YAML format as a key within the `saved_queries` configuration and in the same file as your metric definitions.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
You can define `exports` in YAML format as a key within the `saved_queries` configuration and in the same file as your metric definitions.
```

For example, the following command runs `export_1` and `export_2` and doesn't work with the `--alias` or `--export_as` flags:

```bash
dbt sl export --saved-query sq_name --select export_1,export2
```

<details>
<summary>Overriding export configurations</summary>

The `--select` flag is mainly used to include or exclude specific exports. If you need to change these settings, you can use the following flags to override export configurations:

- `--export-as` &mdash; Defines the materialization type (table or view) for the export. This creates a new export with its own settings and is useful for testing in development.
- `--schema` &mdash;  Specifies the schema to use for the  materialized table or view.
- `--alias` &mdash; Assigns a custom alias to the materialized table or view. This overrides the default export name.

Be careful. The `--select` flag _can't_ be used with `alias` or `schema`.

For example, you can use the following command to create a new export named `new_export` as a table:

```bash
dbt sl export --saved-query sq_number1 --export-as table --alias new_export
```
</details>

### Exports in production

> To enable exports in production using the dbt Cloud job scheduler, follow these steps:

Reviewer 3: sugg: for promoting below to H4 headings (vs bold)

```suggestion
To enable exports in production using the dbt Cloud job scheduler:

1. [Set environment variable](#set-environment-variable)
1. [Create and execute exports](#create-and-execute-exports)
```

> **Set environment variable**

Reviewer 3: sugg: promote to H4 heading. per style guide, bold is reserved for UI labels, titles, etc

```suggestion
#### Set environment variable
```

> 1. Go to your **Environments** page by clicking **Deploy** in the navigation.

Reviewer 3: sugg: slightly more concise

```suggestion
1. Click **Deploy** in the top navigation bar and choose **Environments**.
```

> 2. Select **Environment variables**

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
2. Select **Environment variables**.
```

> 3. [Set the environment variable](/docs/build/environment-variables#setting-and-overriding-environment-variables) key to `DBT_INCLUDE_SAVED_QUERY` and the environment variable(s) value to `TRUE` (`DBT_INCLUDE_SAVED_QUERY=TRUE`).

Reviewer 3: sugg: i think `'s` was intended here, not `(s)` but not 100%

```suggestion
3. [Set the environment variable](/docs/build/environment-variables#setting-and-overriding-environment-variables) key to `DBT_INCLUDE_SAVED_QUERY` and the environment variable's value to `TRUE` (`DBT_INCLUDE_SAVED_QUERY=TRUE`).
```

> Doing this ensures saved queries and exports are included in your dbt build job. For example, running `dbt build sq_name` runs the equivalent of `dbt sl export --saved-query sq_name` in the dbt Cloud Job scheduler.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Doing this ensures saved queries and exports are included in your dbt build job. For example, running `dbt build sq_name` runs the equivalent of `dbt sl export --saved-query sq_name` in the dbt Cloud job scheduler.
```

If exports aren't needed, you can set the value(s) to `FALSE` (`DBT_INCLUDE_SAVED_QUERY=FALSE`).

<Lightbox src="/img/docs/dbt-cloud/semantic-layer/deploy_exports.jpg" width="90%" title="Add an environment variable to run exports in your production run." />

When you run a build job, any saved queries downstream of the dbt models in that job will also run. To make sure your export data is up-to-date, run the export as a downstream step (after the model).

> **Create and execute exports**

Reviewer 3: sugg:  promote to H4 heading

```suggestion
#### Create and execute exports
```

> 1. Create a [deploy job](/docs/deploy/deploy-jobs) and ensure the `DBT_INCLUDE_SAVED_QUERY=TRUE` environment variable is set, as described earlier. 

Reviewer 3: sugg: more precise, easier to maintain in the future 

```suggestion
1. Create a [deploy job](/docs/deploy/deploy-jobs) and ensure the `DBT_INCLUDE_SAVED_QUERY=TRUE` environment variable is set, as described in [Set environment variable](#set-environment-variable). 
```

   - This enables you to run any export that needs to be refreshed after a model is build.
2. After dbt finishes building the models, the MetricFlow Server processes the exports, compiles the necessary SQL, and executes this SQL against your data platform.

> 3. Review the exports execution details in the jobs logs and confirm the export was run successfully. This helps troubleshoot or ensure accuracy. Since saved queries are integrated into the dbt DAG, all outputs related to exports are available in the job logs.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
3. Review the exports' execution details in the jobs logs and confirm the export was run successfully. This helps troubleshoot and to ensure accuracy. Since saved queries are integrated into the dbt DAG, all outputs related to exports are available in the job logs.
```

4. Your data is now available in the data platform for querying.

Enabling and executing exports in dbt Cloud optimizes data workflows and ensures real-time data access. It enhances efficiency and governance for smarter decisions.

You can use the [selector syntax](/reference/node-selection/syntax) `--select` or `-s` to specify a particular dbt model to run in your build command to only run the exports downstream of that model, or to select a saved query to run. As an example, the following command will run any saved queries that are downstream of the `orders` semantic model:

```bash
dbt build --select orders+
```

## FAQs

<detailsToggle alt_header="Can I have multiple exports in a single saved query?">

Yes, this is possible. However, the difference would be the name, schema, and materialization strategy of the export.
</detailsToggle>

<detailsToggle alt_header="How do I run all exports for a saved query?">

> - In production runs, you can build the saved query by calling it directly in the build command, or you build a model and any exports downstream of that model

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- In production runs, you can build the saved query by calling it directly in the build command, or you build a model and any exports downstream of that model.
```

- In development, you can run all exports by running `dbt sl export --saved-query sq_name`.

</detailsToggle>

<detailsToggle alt_header="Will I run duplicate exports if multiple models are downstream of my saved query?">

> dbt will only run each export once even if it builds multiple models that are downstream of the saved query. For example, you may have a saved query called `order_metrics`, which has metrics from both the `orders` and `order_items` semantic models.

Reviewer 3: sugg: "may" in the english lang is ambiguous. for user docs, reserve "may" for permission to be more translation friendly (like you may contact support)

```suggestion
dbt will only run each export once even if it builds multiple models that are downstream of the saved query. For example, you could have a saved query called `order_metrics`, which has metrics from both the `orders` and `order_items` semantic models.
```

| `schema` | String  | Optional    | Schema to use for creating the table or view. |
| `alias` | String  | Optional    | Table alias to use to write the table or view. |

## Run exports

Once you define exports in your dbt project, then you can run them. There are two ways to run an export:
  
- [Run exports in development](#exports-in-development) using the [dbt Cloud CLI](/docs/cloud/cloud-cli-installation).
- [Run exports in production](#exports-in-production) using the [dbt Cloud job scheduler](/docs/deploy/job-scheduler).

### Exports in development

You can run an export in your development environment using your development credentials if you want to test the output of the export before production. You can use the following command in the dbt Cloud CLI:

```bash
dbt sl export
```

You can also run any export defined for the saved query and materialize the table or view in your development environment. For example: 

```bash
dbt sl export --saved-query sq_name
Polling for export status - query_id: 2c1W6M6qGklo1LR4QqzsH7ASGFs..
Export completed.
```

> ---- ADD OUTPUT OF THE COMMAND HERE ----

Author: ```suggestion
```

- `--alias` &mdash; Assigns a custom alias to the materialized table or view. This overrides the default export name.

Be careful. The `--select` flag _can't_ be used with `alias` or `schema`.

For example, you can use the following command to create a new export named `new_export` as a table:

```bash
dbt sl export --saved-query sq_number1 --export-as table --alias new_export
```
</details>

### Exports in production

To enable exports in production using the dbt Cloud job scheduler, follow these steps:

**Set environment variable**

1. Go to your **Environments** page by clicking **Deploy** in the navigation.
2. Select **Environment variables**
3. [Set the environment variable](/docs/build/environment-variables#setting-and-overriding-environment-variables) key to `DBT_INCLUDE_SAVED_QUERY` and the environment variable(s) value to `TRUE` (`DBT_INCLUDE_SAVED_QUERY=TRUE`).

Doing this ensures saved queries and exports are included in your dbt build job. For example, running `dbt build sq_name` runs the equivalent of `dbt sl export --saved-query sq_name` in the dbt Cloud Job scheduler.

If exports aren't needed, you can set the value(s) to `FALSE` (`DBT_INCLUDE_SAVED_QUERY=FALSE`).

> <Lightbox src="/img/docs/dbt-cloud/semantic-layer/deploy_exports.jpg" width="90%" title="Add an environment variable to run exports in your production run." />

Author: @JStein77 i updated teh screenshot so it's super clear that the key only contains `DBT_INCLUDE_SAVED_QUERY` and users don't make the same mistake i did
